>> Sarah: SVG Sprites.
We're gonna cover this section, and
I'm not gonna make you do an exercise for
it because I think it's
good to know about, but
it's a little less useful than some of
the other things that we're gonna cover.
So, we're gonna go
straight from SVG Sprites.
I'm gonna explain some principles, and
then we're gonna go directly into
GreenSock in the next section.
When we talk about GreenSock, before we
talk about GreenSock we're gonna talk
a bit about all the tools,
all the ways to animate and
why we're talking about GreenSock
of all of the tools in the world.
So that you get a sense of
what you're deciding on.
All of those tools are totally acceptable,
I'm just giving you kind of,
we're gonna enter opinion land again for
some of that stuff.
I'm a very curious person,
I play with everything.
So I'm just basically
giving you my TLDR from
having played with literally every
single animation library on the planet.
Okay, so let's start with SVG Sprites.
So there's this great pen, well,
I think it's a Smashing Magazine article
first by Joe Harrison that shows
this thing with SVG sprites.
So even though an SVG can
be just used as an SVG,
you could create a sprite sheet out of
SVG and show different parts of it.
Based on what fidelity you
want to show your users.
So in this technique,
he's moving the viewbox, right?
We said that the viewbox
is kind of like a window.
That's basically what you're doing
with sprites to begin with when you're
working with them.
You're taking a background,
a piece of a background of a bigger
PNG usually for a sprite sheet.
You can also do a similar
thing with sprites.
And because of that,
you can do things like walk cycles.
So there's a couple of different
ways that you could do walk cycles.
You could move each piece of the SVG and
make arms and legs, but
that's a lot of mechanics.
And actually there's a really great pen by
Diego that I can link up later where he
does actually get all the mechanics of
all of the arms and legs pieces moving.
But something that might be a little bit
easier, is to create what I did here,
which is a sprite.
And basically I'm drawing each,
I draw him like walking, and
then I draw the next piece of him walking,
and then I draw the next piece of him
walking until I have a full walk cycle.
And then I'm cycling through that
background image using
a thing called steps.
So if you've ever used
steps in SVG Animation, or
in CSS Animation, it's gonna take one
frame at a time and go through each one.
So here is what that looks like.
I'm kinda doing like a poor man's
animation here by changing the color
per frame instead of doing it, having
the computer interpolate those values.
I'm just going, okay, you're red, you're
a little bit orange, you're a little bit
yellow and going down the hue spectrum,
and I just set up a board.
And what I do is, in Illustrator,
I'll set up a really long board.
I'll say objects split into grid.
They have that thing and
then it'll make guides for me.
So I can just create the drawing,
make a little box around the drawing,
and copy-paste it into the next one.
Move it around a little bit,
copy-paste it into the next one,
move it around a little bit,
copy, and so on and so forth.
So you don't have to start
again in everything.
And that's also how you know
to keep it stable per drawing.
You're just moving those paths
a little bit each time, right?
You're just pulling those
little things around.
And to make this effect for
the background, I have a few different
layers of those SVG animations.
So I have an SVG that's like
the I have a background, and
then I have a SVG that's
like the mid-ground.
And the next mid-ground, and then
the next mid-ground, and then the top.
And what they're doing is,
the things that are closest to me
are moving quicker across that canvas.
And the things that are further away from
me are moving slower across the canvas.
And I also have to check and
make sure that they,
when each end of those backgrounds
lines up, so that it's a seamless loop.
A building doesn't end and then there's
a grass thing or something like that.
It has to match on each side.
So what I've done is I've created
one area for all of them and
extended it for
each one with an add extend.
And then I have one,
I just have one keyframe, and that's 100%,
the background position moves 200%.
And I reused that for each one of these.
So I have seven seconds,
like I said the foreground 7 seconds,
15 seconds, 20 seconds.
So the 20 seconds is gonna take a long
time but I'm reusing the same keyframes.
Do anyone know why I would
do a negative delay?
>> Speaker 2: Starts earlier.
>> Sarah: It starts earlier.
So, why would I do that instead
of starting it at zero?
>> Speaker 2: So
that the animation start at different.
>> Sarah: That's right,
that's exactly right.
So remember how we talked about how the
backgrounds have to kind of line up and
start the same way?
Well, backgrounds in real life don't
all start at a perfect seam, right?
That just kind of looks unnatural.
Usually start looking at a screen or
a like street and
the street is in the middle of the street.
And you're in the middle of the trees or
you're in the middle of the background.
So by kind of reversing, clocking back
the timeline by negative five seconds,
it staggers.
Especially because their timing
is different for each one.
They're staggered.
And it also gives this appearance
that you're walking into the middle
of him walking.
Not like he's standing on a street
corner and then he's walking.
So sometimes in order to get this real
life effect you have to randomize things
just a little bit.
Great.
>> Sarah: Okay,
here's another sprite technique and
this one is like a really, really fun one.
Because basically, what you're doing like,
let's say I want take,
do like a modern day book of Kels.
Do you guys know what book of Kels is?
It's like in these old illuminated
manuscripts back in Ireland,
they would take the first initial letter.
And they would do these crazy,
beautiful, fancy drawings or whatever.
So I thought, what would it be like if
we had an initial letter for a blog,
or something like that?
So you could imagine
that maybe on desktop,
it had a lot of fidelity and stuff.
But maybe on tablet,
it would be a little different.
We pull some of the details off on
the building, so on and so forth.
And then on mobile it would
be kind of simpler view.
Sort of like what we saw
before from the other sprite.
But if you think about the way that
when you saw that original sprite,
there's a lot of repetition going on,
right?
We're actually communicating
a lot of stuff between these.
Like this one's not so
different from this one.
That's a lot of stuff
that we're repeating.
So, what would happen if I just kinda
conditionally showed some pieces?
Well, I could make this one and
this one be basically the same and decide
to show some pieces and remove some pieces
on that view, using the media query.
I could also change the background
of this using a media query and
the size of the SVG will
stay consistent either way.
The mobile view is so different that we're
just gonna leave that as is, but basically
what we end up with is an SVG sprite that
looks like this, it's about the same size.
And we're gonna just make
the view box this, and
then switch the view box at a certain
point in time with some JavaScript.
So what we get is something like this.
I'm gonna open this up in another window.
Got to get out of full screen here.
So we can go like this and it changes and
then it changes all the way down.
>> Sarah: And
it's animated the whole way through and
it nicely adjusts to whatever
view port I'm using it at.
Now that whole SVG and
animation was 8 kilobytes gzipped.
That's awesome, like think about
a PNG to illustrate an article.
Usually when you're trying to
illustrate a blog post or something and
make it interesting you're communicating
with like 180K or something like that.
This is way, way, way smaller and
we're actually doing kinda fun and
cool stuff with it.
So the way that this is done is I'm
basically grabbing in Illustrator,
if you have something that's the same
class or the same id again and again,
it will call it star01,
star02, as it outputs.
So I just quickly did a find and
replace of IDs to classes and
grabbed all the classes that are star,
all the classes that are dot.
And then I have it blinking, but again I
have them blinking at different speeds and
a negative delay to offset them so
that they're not starting
at the same point in time.
No width and height for the SVG itself.
Instead we're gonna define it in CSS.
This is using a float,
I made this pen a while ago.
You could use flexbox, you could use Grid,
you could use whatever you want.
We're using percentage here,
we could do something else.
So we're gonna define a smaller view box.
So the view box was originally zero zero,
I think like 900 by 474.
But I'm gonna crop it to here and say 490.
And then I have some animation media
queries, because I'm actually changing it
from those big mountains to those smaller
mountains on mobile, so I have to change.
They both have that same class on them,
but
I'm changing it up based
on which one we're doing.
And then I have a view box
shift with JavaScript.
You have to use JavaScript for
this one because there's no way
to target a view box in CSS.
I think that there was a proposal
probably by Jake Archibald
to put it into the CSS spec, but I don't
think it got very far, which is fine.
It's not that much code to just
change it between the two.
So we're just grabbing it,
we're listening to a match media, and
then we're changing it
from one to the other.